## RDF: The Good Parts
RDF has been acknowledged as the language for the Web of Data and it has several advantages like the following.

* **Disambiguation.** The use of IRIs to identify predicates and to make assertions about resources enables the user to globally identify the property that is being asserted as well as the resources involved in the statement. Those global properties can be identified by automated agents which can recognize the data that they must understand in a non-ambiguous way.

* **RDF as an integration language.** RDF is compositional in the sense that two RDF graphs obtained from independent sources can automatically be merged to obtain a larger graph. This property facilitates the integration of data from heterogeneous sources.
One of the biggest challenges of the current era related with computer science is how to solve the interoperability problem between different applications that manipulate data that comes from heterogeneous sources. RDF is a step forward to partially solve this problem as RDF data can automatically be integrated even if it has been produced by different parties.

* **RDF as a lingua franca for semantic web and linked data.** The simplicity and generality of the RDF data model enables its use to model any kind of data that can be easily integrated with other data. RDF is at the core of the semantic web stack or layer cake and is mentioned in the linked data principles and in the five-star model. RDF data stores and SPARQL. SPARQL was proposed as a query language for RDF in 2008. The language met an overwhelming acceptance and adoption by the RDF community. The ability to query led to the development of many new applications as well as databases and libraries. RDF data stores began to popularize and some companies started using RDF internally to represent their data. Some of those applications chose RDF just for practical reasons, even without reference to the semantic web. Storing RDF and querying it using SPARQL offers a very flexible model which can adapt very quickly to data model changes. RDF data stores can be seen as part of the NoSQL movement and there are solutions for RDF data stores with high capabilities that can work with very large databases {cite}`neumann2009scalable`. Extensibility. When one starts to develop an application to solve some problem, it is necessary to record information in a format with room to grow, which enables the data model to evolve and increasingly adapt to new needs. The extensible graph model of RDF makes it very easy to add more statements to any graph. Flexibility. While a change in a relational database may be difficult to accomplish. RDF embraces flexibility and these changes are usually a matter of updating the triples.

* **Open by default.** The semantic web approach to knowledge representation promoted what is called Open World Assumption (OWA) instead of the Closed World Assumption (CWA) which was popular in previous knowledge representation systems. The CWA considers that what is not known to be true must be false, while the OWA considers that what is not known is just unknown.

The CWA is usually applied in systems that have complete information while the OWA is more natural for incomplete information systems like the Web.
Given that RDF was applied for the semantic web, most of the applications based on RDF also adopt the Open World Assumption adapting to the appearance of new data.
Although RDF and related technologies employ the Open World Assumption by default, this does not mean that every application must adopt that assumption. In some contexts, it may be necessary to take the opposite view and consider that a system contains all the information on some topic in order to operate.